=pod

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::ModelMapper - ...

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use OpenAPI::ModelMapper ();

  my $self = OpenAPI::ModelMapper->load_spec_file( 'OpenAPI.yml' );

  my $class_file = $self->generate_class( 'DeploymentStatus' );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class is able to generate DTO classes for items in the
C<components/schemas> subsection of an OpenAPI specification. Each class gets
generated according to a given Perl object system. The default object system
is L<Moo>. Other object systems are not supported yet. Each DTO class has a
prefix C<My::App::DTO>. The trailing C<DTO> part is hard-coded. The leading
C<My::App> part is configurable.

  package My::App::Controller::User;
  use Mojo::Base qw( Mojolicious::Controller -signatures );

  sub create ( $c ) {
    my $data = $c->req->json;
    my $user = My::App::DTO::User->new( $data );
    ...
  }

  sub read ( $c ) {
    ...
    my $user = My::App::DTO::User->new( first_name => 'Fred', second_name => 'Flintstone' );
    $c->render( json => $user );
  }

  1

The first action in the previous L<Mojolicious> controller example passes
a decoded request/input C<$data> directly to the constructor C<new()>
of a user DTO class.  This approach works if C<$data> is a HASH reference
and if the selected object system allows to pass a HASH reference to the
constructor. L<Moo/new> for example allows this.

The second controller action renders a user DTO to a JSON encoded
response/output. L<Mojo::JSON> is able to do the rendering if the DTO class
has a C<TO_JSON()> object method implementation.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 2

=item *

L<OpenAPI::PerlGenerator>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Sven Willenbuecher <sven.willenbuecher@gmx.de>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2025 by Sven Willenbuecher.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
